Maintenance

Warning: The customer does not need to open the

  rc_visard

  ’s housing to perform maintenance. Unauthorized opening will void
  the warranty.

Lens cleaning

Glass lenses with antireflective coating are used to reduce glare.
Please take special care when cleaning the lenses. To clean them, use
a soft lens-cleaning brush to remove dust or dirt particles. Then use
a clean microfiber cloth that is designed to clean lenses, and gently
wipe the lens using a circular motion to avoid scratches that may
compromise the sensor’s performance. For stubborn dirt, high purity
isopropanol or a lens cleaning solution formulated for coated lenses
(such as the Uvex Clear family of products) may be used.

Camera calibration

The cameras are calibrated during production. Under normal operation
conditions, the calibration will be valid for the life time of the
sensor. High impact, such as occurring when dropping the

rc_visard

, can change the camera’s parameters slightly. In this case,
calibration can be verified and recalibration undertaken via the Web
GUI (see

Camera calibration

).

Updating the firmware

Information about the current firmware image version can be found on
the

Web GUI

’s

System

 tab in the

System information

 row. It can also be accessed via the

rc_visard

’s

REST-API interface

 using the

GET /system

 request. Users can use either the Web GUI or the REST-API to update
the firmware.

Warning: After a firmware update, all of the software components’
  configured parameters will be reset to their defaults. Please make
  sure these settings are persisted on the application-side or client
  PC (e.g., using the

  REST-API interface

  ) to request all parameters and store them prior to executing the
  update.The following settings are excluded from this and will be
  persisted across a firmware update:

  the rc_visard’s network configuration including an optional static
  IP address and the user-specifed device name,

  the latest result of the Hand-eye calibration\:(Section
  \ref{handeye_calibration:sect-handeye-calibration}), i.e.,
  recalibrating the rc_visard w.r.t. a robot is not required, unless
  mounting has changed, and

  the latest result of the Camera calibration\:(Section
  \ref{camera_calibration:sect-camera-calibration}), i.e.,
  recalibration of the rc_visard’s stereo cameras is not required.

Step 1: Download the newest firmware version.
   Firmware updates will be supplied from of a Mender artifact file
   identified by its ".mender" suffix.

   If a new firmware update is available for your

   rc_visard

    device, the respective file can be downloaded to a local computer
   from

   http://www.roboception.com/download

   .

Step 2: Upload the update file.
   To update with the

   rc_visard

   ’s REST-API, users may refer to the

   POST /system/update

    request.

   To update the firmware via the Web GUI, locate the

   Software Update

    row on the

   System

    tab and press the

   Upload Update

    button (see

   Fig. 46

   ). Select the desired update image file (file extension ".mender")
   from the local file system and open it to start the update.


   Note: Depending on the network architecture and configuration the
     upload may take several minutes. During the update via the Web
     GUI, a progress bar indicates the progress of the upload as shown
     in

     Fig. 47

     .


   Note: Depending on the web browser, the update progress status
     shown in

     Fig. 47

      may indicate the completion of the update too early. Please wait
     until the context window shown in

     Fig. 48

      opens. Expect an overall update time of at least five minutes.


   Warning: Do not close the web-browser tab which contains the Web
     GUI or press the renew button on this tab, because it will abort
     the update procedure. In that case, repeat the update procedure
     from the beginning.

Step 3: Reboot the
rc_visard

.
   To apply a firmware update to the

   rc_visard

    device, a reboot is required after having uploaded the new image
   version.

   Note: The new image version is uploaded to the inactive partition
     of the

     rc_visard

     . Only after rebooting will the inactive partition be activated,
     and the active partition will become inactive. If the updated
     firmware image cannot be loaded, this partition of the

     rc_visard

      remains inactive and the previously installed firmware version
     from the active partition will be used automatically.

   As for the REST-API, the reboot can be performed by the

   PUT /system/reboot

    request.

   After having uploaded the new firmware via the Web GUI, a context
   window is opened as shown in

   Fig. 48

    offering to reboot the device immediately or to postpone it. To
   reboot the

   rc_visard

    at a later time, use the

   Reboot

    button on the Web GUI’s

   System

    tab.

Step 4: Confirm the firmware update.
   After rebooting the

   rc_visard

   , please check the firmware image version number of the currently
   active image to make sure that the updated image was successfully
   loaded. You can do so either via the Web GUI’s

   System

    tab or via the REST-API’s

   GET /system/update

    request.

   Please contact Roboception in case the firmware update could not be
   applied successfully.

Restoring the previous firmware version

After a successful firmware update, the previous firmware image is
stored on the inactive partition of the

rc_visard

 and can be restored in case needed. This procedure is called a

rollback

.

Note: Using the latest firmware as provided by Roboception is
  strongly recommended. Hence, rollback functionality should only be
  used  in case of serious issues with the updated firmware version.

Rollback functionality is only accessible via the

rc_visard

’s

REST-API interface

 using the

PUT /system/rollback

 request. It can be issued using any HTTP-compatible client or using a
web browser as described in

Swagger UI

. Like the update process, the rollback requires a subsequent device
reboot to activate the restored firmware version.

Warning: Like during a firmware update, all software components’
  parameters will be reset to their defaults. Please make sure these
  settings are persisted on the application-side or client PC (e.g.,
  using the

  REST-API interface

  ) prior to executing the rollback.

Rebooting the rc_visard

An

rc_visard

 reboot is necessary after updating the firmware or performing a
software rollback. It can be issued either programmatically, via the

rc_visard

’s

REST-API interface

 using the

PUT /system/reboot

 request, or manually on the

Web GUI

’s

System

 tab. The reboot is finished when the LED turns green again.

Updating the software license

Licenses that are purchased from Roboception for enabling additional
features can be installed via the

Web GUI

’s

System

 panel. The

rc_visard

 has to be rebooted to apply the licenses.

Downloading log files

During operation, the

rc_visard

 logs important information, warnings, and errors into files. If the

rc_visard

 exhibits unexpected or erroneous behavior, the log files can be used
to trace its origin. Log messages can be viewed and filtered using the

Web GUI

’s

Logs

 tab. If contacting the support (

Contact

), the log files are very useful for tracking possible problems. To
download them as a .tar.gz file, click on

Download all logs

 on the Web GUI’s

Logs

 tab.

Besides the Web GUI, the logs are also accessible via the

rc_visard

’s

REST-API interface

 using the

GET /logs

 and

GET /logs/{log}

 requests.
