LoadCarrier

Introduction

The LoadCarrier module is an optional on-board module of the

rc_visard

 and is licensed with any of the modules ItemPick, BoxPick or
SilhouetteMatch. Otherwise it requires a separate LoadCarrier

license

  to be purchased.

The load carrier functionality is provided by the LoadCarrier module
itself, but also  by the

ItemPick and BoxPick

 and

SilhouetteMatch

 modules.

Load carrier

A load carrier (bin) is a container with four walls, a floor and a
rectangular rim, which can contain objects. It can be used to limit
the volume in which to search for objects or grasp points.

A load carrier is defined by its "outer_dimensions" and
"inner_dimensions". The maximum "outer_dimensions" are 2.0 meters in
every dimension.

The origin of the load carrier reference frame is in the center of the
load carrier

outer

 box and its z axis is perpendicular to the load carrier floor
pointing outwards (see

Fig. 26

).


Note: Typically, outer and inner dimensions of a load carrier are
  available in the specifications of the load carrier manufacturer.

The inner volume of the load carrier is defined by its inner
dimensions, but includes a region of 10 cm height above the load
carrier, so that also items protruding from the load carrier are
considered for detection or grasp computation. Furthermore, an
additional "crop_distance" is subtracted from the inner volume in
every dimension, which acts as a safety margin and can be configured
as run-time parameter (see

Parameters

).

Fig. 27

 visualizes the inner volume of a load carrier. Only points which are
inside this volume are considered for detections.


The

rc_visard

 can persistently store up to 50 different load carrier models, each
one identified by a different "id". The configuration of a load
carrier model is normally performed offline, during the set up the
desired application. This can be done via the

REST-API interface

 or in the

rc_visard

 Web GUI.

Note: The configured load carrier models are persistent even over
  firmware updates and rollbacks.

Load carrier compartments

Some detection modules can make use of a "load_carrier_compartment" to
further limit the volume for the detection, for example

ItemPick's compute_grasps service

. A load carrier compartment is a box whose "pose" is defined as the
transformation from the load carrier reference frame to the
compartment reference frame, which is located in the center of the
compartment box (see

Fig. 28

).


The compartment volume is intersected with the load carrier inner
volume to compute the volume for the detection. If this intersection
should also contain the 10 cm region above the load carrier, the
height of the compartment box must be increased accordingly.

Detection of load carriers

The load carrier detection algorithm is based on the detection of the
load carrier's rectangular rim. By default, the rectangular
"rim_thickness" is computed from the outer and inner dimensions. As an
alternative, its value can also be explicitly specified by the user.

The detection algorithm returns the pose of the load carrier's origin
(see

Load carrier

) in the desired pose frame.

The detection functionality also determines if the detected load
carrier is "overfilled", which means, that objects protrude from the
plane defined by the load carrier rim.


The user can optionally specify a prior for the load carrier "pose".
The detected load carrier pose is guaranteed to have the minimum
rotation with respect to the load carrier prior pose. If no prior is
specified, the algorithm searches for a load carrier whose floor is
perpendicular to the estimated gravity vector.

Detection of filling level

The LoadCarrier module offers the "detect_filling_level" service to
compute the filling level of a detected load carrier.

The load carrier is subdivided in a configurable number of cells in a
2D grid. The maximum number of cells is 10x10. For each cell, the
following values are reported:

level_in_percent: minimum, maximum and mean cell filling level in
percent from the load carrier floor. These values can be larger than
100% if the cell is overfilled.

level_free_in_meters: minimum, maximum and mean cell free level in
meters from the load carrier rim. These values can be negative if the
cell is overfilled.

cell_size: dimensions of the 2D cell in meters.

cell_position: position of the cell center in meters (either in camera
or external frame, see Hand-eye calibration, Section \ref{loadcarrier
:sect-loadcarrier-hand-eye-dep}). The z-coordinate is on the level of
the load carrier rim.

coverage: represents the proportion of valid pixels in this cell. It
varies between 0 and 1 with steps of 0.1. A low coverage indicates
that the cell contains several missing data (i.e. only a few points
were actually measured in this cell).

These values are also calculated for the whole load carrier itself. If
no cell subdivision is specified, only the overall filling level is
computed.


Interaction with other modules

Internally, the LoadCarrier module depends on, and interacts with
other on-board modules as listed below.

Note: All changes and configuration updates to these modules will
  affect the performance of the LoadCarrier module.

Stereo camera and Stereo matching

The LoadCarrier module makes internally use of the following data:

Rectified images from the Stereo camera module (rc_stereocamera,
Section \ref{stereo_camera:sect-stereo-camera});

Disparity, error, and confidence images from the Stereo matching
module (rc_stereomatching, Section \ref{stereo_matching:sect-stereo-
matching}).

All processed images are guaranteed to be captured after the module
trigger time.

Estimation of gravity vector

For each load carrier detection, the module estimates the gravity
vector by subscribing to the

rc_visard

's IMU data stream.

Note: The gravity vector is estimated from linear acceleration
  readings from the on-board IMU. For this reason, the LoadCarrier
  module requires the

  rc_visard

   to remain still while the gravity vector is being estimated.

IO and Projector Control

In case the

rc_visard

 is used in conjunction with an external random dot projector and the

IO and Projector Control

 module ("rc_iocontrol"), it is recommended to connect the projector
to GPIO Out 1 and set the stereo-camera module's acquisition mode to
"SingleFrameOut1" (see

Stereo matching parameters

, so that on each image acquisition trigger an image with and without
projector pattern is acquired.

Alternatively, the output mode for the GPIO output in use should be
set to "ExposureAlternateActive" (see

Description of run-time parameters

).

In either case, the

Auto Exposure Mode

 "exp_auto_mode" should be set to "AdaptiveOut1" to optimize the
exposure of both images (see

Stereo camera parameters

.

No additional changes are required to use the LoadCarrier module in
combination with a random dot projector.

Hand-eye calibration

In case the camera has been calibrated to a robot, the loadcarrier
module can automatically provide poses in the robot coordinate frame.
For the loadcarrier nodes'

Services

, the frame of the output poses can be controlled with the
"pose_frame" argument.

Two different "pose_frame" values can be chosen:

Camera frame (camera). All poses provided by the modules are in the
camera frame, and no prior knowledge about the pose of the camera in
the environment is required. This means that the configured load
carriers move with the camera. It is the user's responsibility to
update the configured poses if the camera frame moves (e.g. with a
robot-mounted camera).

External frame (external). All poses provided by the modules are in
the external frame, configured by the user during the hand-eye
calibration process. The module relies on the on-board Hand-eye
calibration module\:(Section \ref{handeye_calibration:sect-handeye-
calibration}) to retrieve the sensor mounting (static or robot
mounted) and the hand-eye transformation. If the mounting is static,
no further information is needed. If the sensor is robot-mounted, the
robot_pose is required to transform poses to and from the external
frame.

Note: If no hand-eye calibration is available, all "pose_frame"
  values should be set to "camera".

All "pose_frame" values that are not "camera" or "external" are
rejected.

Parameters

The LoadCarrier module is called "rc_load_carrier" in the REST-API and
is used internally by several other modules. The user can explore and
configure the LoadCarrier module's run-time parameter, e.g. for
development and testing, using the

LoadCarrier

 page under the

Modules

 tab in the

Web GUI

, or the

REST-API interface

.

Parameter overview

This module offers the following run-time parameters:

The rc_load_carrier module's run-time parameters              Name
Type  Min  Max  Default  Description  crop_distance  float64  0.0
0.05  0.005  Safety margin in meters by which the load carrier inner
dimensions are reduced to define the region of interest for detection
model_tolerance  float64  0.003  0.025  0.008  Indicates how much the
estimated load carrier dimensions are allowed to differ from the load
carrier model dimensions in meters

Description of run-time parameters

Each run-time parameter is represented by a row on the

LoadCarrier Settings

 section of the Web GUI's

LoadCarrier

 page. The name in the Web GUI is given in brackets behind the
parameter name and the parameters are listed in the order they appear
in the Web GUI. The parameters are prefixed with "load_carrier_" when
they are used outside the "rc_load_carrier" module from another
detection module using the

REST-API interface

.

model_tolerance (Model Tolerance)

   indicates how much the estimated load carrier dimensions are
   allowed to differ from the load carrier model dimensions in meters.

   Via the REST-API, this parameter can be set as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/parameters?model_tolerance=<value>

crop_distance (Crop Distance)

   sets the safety margin in meters by which the load carrier's inner
   dimensions are reduced to define the region of interest for
   detection (ref.

   Fig. 27

   ).

   Via the REST-API, this parameter can be set as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/parameters?crop_distance=<value>

Services

The user can explore and call the LoadCarrier module's services, e.g.
for development and testing, using the

REST-API interface

 or the

rc_visard


Web GUI

 on the

LoadCarrier

 page under the

Modules

 tab.

Each service response contains a "return_code", which consists of a
"value" plus an optional "message". A successful service returns with
a "return_code" value of "0". Negative "return_code" values indicate
that the service failed. Positive "return_code" values indicate that
the service succeeded with additional information. The smaller value
is selected in case a service has multiple "return_code" values, but
all messages are appended in the "return_code" message.

The following table contains a list of common codes:

Return codes of the LoadCarrier module's services      Code
Description  0  Success  -1  An invalid argument was provided  -4
Data acquisition took longer than the maximum allowed time of 5.0
seconds  -10  New element could not be added as the maximum storage
capacity of load carriers has been exceeded  -302  More than one load
carrier provided to the detect_load_carriers or detect_filling_level
services, but only one is supported  10  The maximum storage capacity
of load carriers has been reached  11  An existent persistent model
was overwritten by the call to set_load_carrier  100  The requested
load carriers were not detected in the scene  102  The detected load
carrier is empty  300  A valid robot_pose was provided as argument but
it is not required

All software modules providing the load carrier functionality offer
the following services.

set_region_of_interest

   see

   set_region_of_interest

   .

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/set_region_of_interest

get_regions_of_interest

   see

   get_regions_of_interest

   .

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/get_regions_of_interest

delete_regions_of_interest

   see

   delete_regions_of_interest

   .

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/delete_regions_of_interest

set_region_of_interest_2d

   see

   set_region_of_interest_2d

   .

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/set_region_of_interest_2d

get_regions_of_interest_2d

   see

   get_regions_of_interest_2d

   .

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/get_regions_of_interest_2d

delete_regions_of_interest_2d

   see

   delete_regions_of_interest_2d

   .

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/delete_regions_of_interest_2d

set_load_carrier

   Persistently stores a load carrier on the

   rc_visard

   . All configured load carriers are persistent over firmware updates
   and rollbacks.

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/set_load_carrier

   The definition for the request arguments with corresponding
   datatypes is:

      {
        "args": {
          "load_carrier": {
            "id": "string",
            "inner_dimensions": {
              "x": "float64",
              "y": "float64",
              "z": "float64"
            },
            "outer_dimensions": {
              "x": "float64",
              "y": "float64",
              "z": "float64"
            },
            "pose": {
              "orientation": {
                "w": "float64",
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64",
                "z": "float64"
              },
              "position": {
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64",
                "z": "float64"
              }
            },
            "pose_frame": "string",
            "rim_thickness": {
              "x": "float64",
              "y": "float64"
            }
          }
        }
      }

   Details for the definition of the "load_carrier" type are given in

   Detection of load carriers

   .

   The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

      {
        "name": "set_load_carrier",
        "response": {
          "return_code": {
            "message": "string",
            "value": "int16"
          }
        }
      }

get_load_carriers

   Returns the configured load carriers with the requested
   "load_carrier_ids". If no "load_carrier_ids" are provided, all
   configured load carriers are returned.

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/get_load_carriers

   The definition for the request arguments with corresponding
   datatypes is:

      {
        "args": {
          "load_carrier_ids": [
            "string"
          ]
        }
      }

   The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

      {
        "name": "get_load_carriers",
        "response": {
          "load_carriers": [
            {
              "id": "string",
              "inner_dimensions": {
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64",
                "z": "float64"
              },
              "outer_dimensions": {
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64",
                "z": "float64"
              },
              "pose": {
                "orientation": {
                  "w": "float64",
                  "x": "float64",
                  "y": "float64",
                  "z": "float64"
                },
                "position": {
                  "x": "float64",
                  "y": "float64",
                  "z": "float64"
                }
              },
              "pose_frame": "string",
              "rim_thickness": {
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64"
              }
            }
          ],
          "return_code": {
            "message": "string",
            "value": "int16"
          }
        }
      }

delete_load_carriers

   Deletes the configured load carriers with the requested
   "load_carrier_ids". All load carriers to be deleted must be
   explicitly stated in "load_carrier_ids".

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/delete_load_carriers

   The definition for the request arguments with corresponding
   datatypes is:

      {
        "args": {
          "load_carrier_ids": [
            "string"
          ]
        }
      }

   The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

      {
        "name": "delete_load_carriers",
        "response": {
          "return_code": {
            "message": "string",
            "value": "int16"
          }
        }
      }

detect_load_carriers

   Triggers a load carrier detection as described in

   Detection of load carriers

   .

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/detect_load_carriers

   Request:

      The definition for the request arguments with corresponding
      datatypes is:

         {
           "args": {
             "load_carrier_ids": [
               "string"
             ],
             "pose_frame": "string",
             "region_of_interest_2d_id": "string",
             "region_of_interest_id": "string",
             "robot_pose": {
               "orientation": {
                 "w": "float64",
                 "x": "float64",
                 "y": "float64",
                 "z": "float64"
               },
               "position": {
                 "x": "float64",
                 "y": "float64",
                 "z": "float64"
               }
             }
           }
         }

      Required arguments:

         "pose_frame": see

         Hand-eye calibration

         .

         "load_carrier_ids": IDs of the load carriers which should be
         detected.

      Potentially required arguments:

         "robot_pose": see

         Hand-eye calibration

         .

      Optional arguments:

         "region_of_interest_id": ID of the 3D region of interest
         where to search for the load carriers.

         "region_of_interest_2d_id": ID of the 2D region of interest
         where to search for the load carriers.

         Warning: Only one type of region of interest can be set.

   Response:

      The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

         {
           "name": "detect_load_carriers",
           "response": {
             "load_carriers": [
               {
                 "id": "string",
                 "inner_dimensions": {
                   "x": "float64",
                   "y": "float64",
                   "z": "float64"
                 },
                 "outer_dimensions": {
                   "x": "float64",
                   "y": "float64",
                   "z": "float64"
                 },
                 "overfilled": "bool",
                 "pose": {
                   "orientation": {
                     "w": "float64",
                     "x": "float64",
                     "y": "float64",
                     "z": "float64"
                   },
                   "position": {
                     "x": "float64",
                     "y": "float64",
                     "z": "float64"
                   }
                 },
                 "pose_frame": "string",
                 "rim_thickness": {
                   "x": "float64",
                   "y": "float64"
                 }
               }
             ],
             "return_code": {
               "message": "string",
               "value": "int16"
             },
             "timestamp": {
               "nsec": "int32",
               "sec": "int32"
             }
           }
         }

      "load_carriers": list of detected load carriers.

      "timestamp": timestamp of the image set the detection ran on.

      "return_code": holds possible warnings or error codes and
      messages.

detect_filling_level

   Triggers a load carrier filling level detection as described in

   Detection of filling level

   .

   This service can be called as follows.

      PUT http://<host>/api/v1/nodes/rc_load_carrier/services/detect_filling_level

   Request:

      The definition for the request arguments with corresponding
      datatypes is:

         {
           "args": {
             "filling_level_cell_count": {
               "x": "uint32",
               "y": "uint32"
             },
             "load_carrier_ids": [
               "string"
             ],
             "pose_frame": "string",
             "region_of_interest_2d_id": "string",
             "region_of_interest_id": "string",
             "robot_pose": {
               "orientation": {
                 "w": "float64",
                 "x": "float64",
                 "y": "float64",
                 "z": "float64"
               },
               "position": {
                 "x": "float64",
                 "y": "float64",
                 "z": "float64"
               }
             }
           }
         }

      Required arguments:

         "pose_frame": see

         Hand-eye calibration

         .

         "load_carrier_ids": IDs of the load carriers which should be
         detected.

      Potentially required arguments:

         "robot_pose": see

         Hand-eye calibration

         .

      Optional arguments:

         "filling_level_cell_count": Number of cells in the filling
         level grid.

         "region_of_interest_id": ID of the 3D region of interest
         where to search for the load carriers.

         "region_of_interest_2d_id": ID of the 2D region of interest
         where to search for the load carriers.

         Warning: Only one type of region of interest can be set.

   Response:

      The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

         {
           "name": "detect_filling_level",
           "response": {
             "load_carriers": [
               {
                 "cells_filling_levels": [
                   {
                     "cell_position": {
                       "x": "float64",
                       "y": "float64",
                       "z": "float64"
                     },
                     "cell_size": {
                       "x": "float64",
                       "y": "float64"
                     },
                     "coverage": "float64",
                     "level_free_in_meters": {
                       "max": "float64",
                       "mean": "float64",
                       "min": "float64"
                     },
                     "level_in_percent": {
                       "max": "float64",
                       "mean": "float64",
                       "min": "float64"
                     }
                   }
                 ],
                 "filling_level_cell_count": {
                   "x": "uint32",
                   "y": "uint32"
                 },
                 "id": "string",
                 "inner_dimensions": {
                   "x": "float64",
                   "y": "float64",
                   "z": "float64"
                 },
                 "outer_dimensions": {
                   "x": "float64",
                   "y": "float64",
                   "z": "float64"
                 },
                 "overall_filling_level": {
                   "cell_position": {
                     "x": "float64",
                     "y": "float64",
                     "z": "float64"
                   },
                   "cell_size": {
                     "x": "float64",
                     "y": "float64"
                   },
                   "coverage": "float64",
                   "level_free_in_meters": {
                     "max": "float64",
                     "mean": "float64",
                     "min": "float64"
                   },
                   "level_in_percent": {
                     "max": "float64",
                     "mean": "float64",
                     "min": "float64"
                   }
                 },
                 "overfilled": "bool",
                 "pose": {
                   "orientation": {
                     "w": "float64",
                     "x": "float64",
                     "y": "float64",
                     "z": "float64"
                   },
                   "position": {
                     "x": "float64",
                     "y": "float64",
                     "z": "float64"
                   }
                 },
                 "pose_frame": "string",
                 "rim_thickness": {
                   "x": "float64",
                   "y": "float64"
                 }
               }
             ],
             "return_code": {
               "message": "string",
               "value": "int16"
             },
             "timestamp": {
               "nsec": "int32",
               "sec": "int32"
             }
           }
         }

      "load_carriers": list of detected load carriers and their
      filling levels.

      "timestamp": timestamp of the image set the detection ran on.

      "return_code": holds possible warnings or error codes and
      messages.
