TagDetect

Introduction

The TagDetect components run on board the

rc_visard

 and allow the detection of 2D bar codes and tags. Currently, there
are TagDetect components for *QR codes* and *AprilTags*. The
components furthermore compute the position and orientation of each
tag in the 3D camera coordinate system, making it simple to manipulate
a tag with a robot or to localize the camera with respect to a tag.

Note: The TagDetect components are optional and require a separate

  license

   to be purchased.

Tag detection is made up of three steps:

Tag reading on the 2D image pair (see Tag reading, Section
\ref{tagdetect:sect-tag-reading}).

Estimation of the pose of each tag (see Pose estimation, Section
\ref{tagdetect:sect-tag-pose-estimation}).

Re-identification of previously seen tags (see Tag re-identification,
Section \ref{tagdetect:sect-tag-re-identification}).

In the following, the two supported tag types are described, followed
by a comparison.

QR code


QR codes are two-dimensional bar codes that contain arbitrary user-
defined data. There is wide support for decoding of QR codes on
commodity hardware such as smartphones. Also, many online and offline
tools are available for the generation of such codes.

The “pixels” of a QR code are called *modules*. Appearance and
resolution of QR codes change with the amount of data they contain.
While the special patterns in the three corners are always 7 modules
wide, the number of modules between them increases the more data is
stored. The lowest-resolution QR code is of size 21x21 modules and can
contain up to 152 bits.

Even though many QR code generation tools support generation of
specially designed QR codes (e.g., containing a logo, having round
corners, or having dots as modules), a reliable detection of these
tags by the

rc_visard

’s TagDetect component is not guaranteed. The same holds for QR codes
which contain characters that are not part of regular ASCII.

AprilTag


AprilTags are similar to QR codes. However, they are specifically
designed for robust identification at large distances. As for QR
codes, we will call the tag pixels *modules*.

Fig. 46

 shows how AprilTags are structured. They are surrounded by a
mandatory white and black border, each one module wide. In the center,
they carry a variable amount of data modules. Other than QR codes,
they do not contain any user-defined information but are identified by
a predefined

family

 and

ID

. The tags in

Fig. 46

 for example are of family 16h5 and 36h11 and have id 0 and 11,
respectively. All supported families are shown in

Table 24

.

AprilTag families        Family  Number of tag IDs  Recommended  16h5
30  -  25h7  242  -  25h9  35  o  36h10  2320  o  36h11  587  +

For each family, the number before the “h” states the number of data
modules contained in the tag: While a 16h5 tag contains 16 (4x4) data
modules ((c) in

Fig. 46

), a 36h11 tag contains 36 (6x6) modules. The number behind the “h”
refers to the Hamming distance between two tags of the same family.
The higher, the more robust is the detection, but the fewer individual
tag IDs are available for the same number of data modules (see

Table 24

).

The advantage of fewer data modules (as for 16h5 compared to 36h11) is
the lower resolution of the tag. Hence, each tag module is larger and
the tag therefore can be detected from a larger distance. This,
however, comes at a price: First, fewer data modules lead to fewer
individual tag IDs. Second, and more importantly, detection robustness
is significantly reduced due to a higher false positive rate; i.e,
tags are mixed up or nonexistent tags are detected in random image
texture or noise.

For these reasons we recommend using the 36h11 family and highly
discourage the use of the 16h5 and 25h7 families. The latter families
should only be used if a large detection distance really is necessary
for an application. However, the maximum detection distance increases
only by approximately 25% when using a 16h5 tag instead of a 36h11
tag.

Pre-generated AprilTags can be downloaded at the AprilTag project
website (

https://april.eecs.umich.edu/software/apriltag.html

). There, each family consists of multiple PNGs containing single tags
and one PDF containing each tag on a separate page. Each pixel in the
PNGs corresponds to one AprilTag module. When printing the tags,
special care must be taken to also include the white border around the
tag that is contained in the PNGs as well as PDFs (see (a) in

Fig. 46

). Moreover, the tags should be scaled to the desired printing size
without any interpolation, so that the sharp edges are preserved.

Comparison

Both QR codes and AprilTags have their up and down sides. While QR
codes allow arbitrary user-defined data to be stored, AprilTags have a
pre-defined and limited set of tags. On the other hand, AprilTags have
a lower resolution and can therefore be detected at larger distances.
Moreover, the continuous white to black edge around AprilTags allow
for more precise pose estimation.

Note: If user-defined data is not required, AprilTags should be
  preferred over QR codes.

Tag reading

The first step in the tag detection pipeline is reading the tags on
the 2D image pair. This step takes most of the processing time and its
precision is crucial for the precision of the resulting tag pose. To
control the speed of this step, the "quality" parameter can be set by
the user. It results in a downscaling of the image pair before reading
the tags. “H” (*High*) yields the largest maximum detection distance
and highest precision, but also the highest processing time. “L”
(*Low*) results in the smallest maximum detection distance and lowest
precision, but processing requires less than half of the time. “M”
(*Medium*) lies in between. Please note that this quality parameter
has no relation to the quality parameter of

Stereo matching

.


The maximum detection distance z at quality “H” can be approximated by
using the following formulae,

   z = \frac{f s}{p},

   s = \frac{t}{r},

where f is the

focal length

 in pixels and s is the size of a module in meters. s can easily be
calculated by the latter formula, where t is the size of the tag in
meters and r is the width of the code in modules (for AprilTags
without the white border).

Fig. 47

 visualizes these variables. p denotes the number of image pixels per
module required for detection. It is different for QR codes and
AprilTags. Moreover, it varies with the tag’s angle to the camera and
illumination. Approximate values for robust detection are:

AprilTag:  pixels/module

QR code:  pixels/module

The following tables give sample maximum distances for different
situations, assuming a focal length of 1075 pixels and the parameter
"quality" to be set to “H”.

Maximum detection distance examples for AprilTags with a width
of  cm        AprilTag family  Tag width  Maximum distance  36h11
(recommended)  8 modules  1.1 m  16h5  6 modules  1.4 m

Maximum detection distance examples for QR codes with a width
of  cm      Tag width  Maximum distance  29 modules  0.49 m  21
modules  0.70 m

Pose estimation

For each detected tag, the pose of this tag in the camera coordinate
frame is estimated. A requirement for pose estimation is that a tag is
fully visible in the left and right camera image. The coordinate frame
of the tag is aligned as shown below.


The z-axis is pointing “into” the tag. Please note that for AprilTags,
although having the white border included in their definition, the
coordinate system’s origin is placed exactly at the transition from
the white to the black border. Since AprilTags do not have an obvious
orientation, the origin is defined as the upper left corner in the
orientation they are pre-generated in.

During pose estimation, the tag’s size is also estimated, while
assuming the tag to be square. For QR codes, the size covers the full
tag. For AprilTags, the size covers only the black part of the tag,
hence ignoring the outermost white border.

The user can also specify the approximate size (\pm 10\%) of tags with
a specific ID. All tags not matching this size contraint are
automatically filtered out. This information is further used to
resolve ambiguities in pose estimation that may arise if multiple tags
with the same ID are visible in the left and right image and these
tags are aligned in parallel to the image rows.

Note: For best pose estimation results one should make sure to
  accurately print the tag and to attach it to a rigid and as planar
  as possible surface. Any distortion of the tag or bump in the
  surface will degrade the estimated pose.

Warning: It is highly recommended to set the approximate size of a
  tag. Otherwise, if multiple tags with the same ID are visible in the
  left or right image, pose estimation may compute a wrong pose if
  these tags have the same orientation and are approximately aligned
  in parallel to the image rows. However, even if the approximate size
  is not given, the TagDetect components try to detect such situations
  and filter out affected tags.

Below tables give approximate precisions of the estimated poses of
AprilTags and QR codes. We distinguish between lateral precision
(i.e., in x and y direction) and precision in z direction. It is
assumed that "quality" is set to “H” and that the

rc_visard

’s viewing direction is roughly parallel to the tag’s normal. The size
of a tag does not have a significant effect on the lateral or z
precision; however, in general, larger tags improve precision. With
respect to precision of the orientation especially around the x and y
axes, larger tags clearly outperform smaller ones.

Approximate pose precision for AprilTags            Distance
rc_visard 65 - lateral  rc_visard 65 - z  rc_visard 160 - lateral
rc_visard 160 - z  0.3 m  0.4 mm  0.9 mm  0.4 mm  0.8 mm  1.0 m  0.7
mm  3.3 mm  0.7 mm  3.3 mm

Approximate pose precision for QR codes            Distance  rc_visard
65 - lateral  rc_visard 65 - z  rc_visard 160 - lateral  rc_visard 160
- z  0.3 m  0.6 mm  2.0 mm  0.6 mm  1.3 mm  1.0 m  2.6 mm  15 mm  2.6
mm  7.9 mm

Tag re-identification

Each tag has an ID; for AprilTags it is the

family

 plus

tag ID

, for QR codes it is the contained data. However, these IDs are not
unique, since the same tag may appear multiple times in a scene.

For distinction of these tags, the TagDetect components also assign
each detected tag a unique identifier. To help the user identifying an
identical tag over multiple detections, tag detection tries to re-
identify tags; if successful, a tag is assigned the same unique
identifier again. Tag re-identification compares the positions of the
corners of the tags in a static coordinate frame to find identical
tags. Tags are assumed identical if they did not or only slightly move
in that static coordinate frame. For that static coordinate frame to
be available,

dynamic-state estimation

 must be switched on. If it is not, the sensor is assumed to be
static; tag re-identification will then not work across sensor
movements.

By setting the "max_corner_distance" threshold, the user can specify
how much a tag is allowed move in the static coordinate frame between
two detections to be considered identical. This parameter defines the
maximum distance between the corners of two tags, which is shown in

Fig. 49

. The Euclidean distances of all four corresponding tag corners are
computed in 3D. If none of these distances exceeds the threshold, the
tags are considered identical.


After a number of tag detection runs, previously detected tag
instances will be discarded if they are not detected in the meantime.
This can be configured by the parameter "forget_after_n_detections".

Interfaces

There are two separate components for tag detection of the sensor, one
for detecting AprilTags and one for QR codes, named
"rc_april_tag_detect" and "rc_qr_code_detect", respectively. Apart
from the component names they share the same interface definition.

Parameters and status values

In the following, the parameters and status values are listed based on
the example of "rc_qr_code_detect". They are the same for
"rc_april_tag_detect".

This component offers the following run-time parameters.

The rc_qr_code_detect component’s run-time parameters
Name  Type  Min  Max  Default  Description  detect_inverted_tags  bool
False  True  False  Detect tags with black and white exchanged
forget_after_n_detections  int32  1  1000  30  Number of detection
runs after which to forget about a previous tag during tag re-
identification  max_corner_distance  float64  0.001  0.01  0.005
Maximum distance of corresponding tag corners in meters during tag re-
identification  quality  string  -  -  H  Quality of tag detection (H,
M or L)  use_cached_images  bool  False  True  False  Use most
recently received image pair instead of waiting for a new pair

This component reports the following status values.

The rc_qr_code_detect component’s status values      Name  Description
state  The current state of the node

The reported "state" can take one of the following values.

Possible states of the TagDetect components      State name
Description  IDLE  The component is idle.  RUNNING  The component is
running and ready for tag detection.  FATAL  A fatal error has
occurred.

Services

The TagDetect components implement a state machine for starting and
stopping. The actual tag detection can be triggered via "detect".

"start"
   starts the component by transitioning from "IDLE" to "RUNNING".

   When running, the component receives images from the stereo camera
   and is ready to perform tag detections. To save computing resources
   on the sensor, the component should only be running when necessary.

   This service requires no arguments.

   This service returns the following response:

      {
        "accepted": "bool",
        "current_state": "string"
      }

"stop"
   stops the component by transitioning to "IDLE".

   This transition can be performed from state "RUNNING" and "FATAL".
   All tag re-identification information is cleared during stopping.

   This service requires no arguments.

   This service returns the following response:

      {
        "accepted": "bool",
        "current_state": "string"
      }

"restart"
   restarts the component. If in "RUNNING" or "FATAL", the component
   will be stopped and then started. If in "IDLE", the component will
   be started.

   This service requires no arguments.

   This service returns the following response:

      {
        "accepted": "bool",
        "current_state": "string"
      }

"detect"
   triggers a tag detection. Depending on the "use_cached_images"
   parameter, the component will use the latest received image pair
   (if set to true) or wait for a new pair that is captured after the
   service call was triggered (if set to false, this is the default).
   Even if set to true, tag detection will never use one image pair
   twice.

   It is recommended to call "detect" in state "RUNNING" only. It is
   also possible to be called in state "IDLE", resulting in an auto-
   start and stop of the component. This, however, has some drawbacks:
   First, the call will take considerably longer; second, tag re-
   identification will not work. It is therefore highly recommended to
   manually start the component before calling "detect".

   This service requires the following arguments:

      {
        "tags": [
          {
            "id": "string",
            "size": "float64"
          }
        ]
      }

   This service returns the following response:

      {
        "return_code": {
          "message": "string",
          "value": "int16"
        },
        "tags": [
          {
            "id": "string",
            "instance_id": "string",
            "pose": {
              "orientation": {
                "w": "float64",
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64",
                "z": "float64"
              },
              "position": {
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64",
                "z": "float64"
              }
            },
            "pose_frame": "string",
            "size": "float64",
            "timestamp": {
              "nsec": "int32",
              "sec": "int32"
            }
          }
        ],
        "timestamp": {
          "nsec": "int32",
          "sec": "int32"
        }
      }

   Request:
      "tags" is the list of tag IDs that the TagDetect component
      should detect. For QR codes, the ID is the contained data. For
      AprilTags, it is *“<family>_<id>”*, so, e.g., for a tag of
      family 36h11 and ID 5, it is *“36h11_5”*. Naturally, the
      AprilTag component can only be triggered for AprilTags, and the
      QR code component only for QR codes.

      The "tags" list can also be left empty. In that case, all
      detected tags will be returned. This feature should be used only
      during development and debugging of an application. Whenever
      possible, the concrete tag IDs should be listed, on the one hand
      avoiding some false positives, on the other hand speeding up tag
      detection by filtering tags not of interest.

      For AprilTags, the user can not only specify concrete tags but
      also a complete family by setting the ID to “<family>”, so,
      e.g., “36h11”. All tags of this family will then be detected. It
      is further possible to specify multiple complete tag families or
      a combination of concrete tags and complete tag families; for
      instance, triggering for “36h11”, “25h9_3”, and “36h10” at the
      same time.

      In addition to the ID, the approximate size (\pm 10\%) of a tag
      can be set with the "size" parameter. As described in

      Pose estimation

      , this information helps to resolve ambiguities in pose
      estimation that may arise in certain situations.

   Response:
      "timestamp" is set to the timestamp of the image pair the tag
      detection ran on.

      "tags" contains all detected tags. "id" is the ID of the tag,
      similar to "id" in the request. "instance_id" is the random
      unique identifier of the tag assigned by tag re-identification.
      "pose" contains "position" and "orientation". The orientation is
      in quaternion format. "pose_frame" is set to the coordinate
      frame above pose refers to. It will always be “camera”. "size"
      will be set to the estimated tag size in meters; for AprilTags,
      the white border is not included.

      "return_code" holds possible warnings or error codes in "value",
      which are represented by a value greater than or less than 0,
      respectively. The respective error message can be found in
      "message". The following table contains a list of common codes:

          Code  Description  0  Success  -1  An invalid argument was
      provided  -4  A timeout occurred while waiting for the image
      pair  -9  The license is not valid  -101  Internal error  -102
      There was a backwards jump of system time  -200  A fatal
      internal error occurred  101  A warning occurred during tag
      reading  102  A warning occurred during pose estimation  200
      Multiple warnings occurred; see list in message  201  The
      component was not in state RUNNING

   Tags might be omitted from the "detect" response due to several
   reasons, e.g., if a tag is visible in only one of the cameras or if
   pose estimation did not succeed. These filtered-out tags are noted
   in the log, which can be accessed as described in

   Downloading log files

   .

   Due to changes in system time on the sensor there might occur jumps
   of timestamps, forward as well as backward (see

   Time synchronization

   ). Forward jumps do not have an effect on the TagDetect component.
   Backward jumps, however, invalidate already received images.
   Therefore, in case a backwards time jump is detected, an error of
   value -102 will be issued on the next "detect" call, also to inform
   the user that the timestamps included in the response will jump
   back.

"save_parameters"
   With this service call, the TagDetect component’s current parameter
   settings are persisted to the

   rc_visard

   . That is, these values are applied even after reboot.

"reset_defaults"
   Restores and applies the default values for this component’s
   parameters (“factory reset”) as given in the table above.
