Software components

The

rc_visard

 comes with several on-board software components, each of which
corresponds to a certain functionality and can be interfaced via its
respective

node

 in the

REST-API interface

.

The

Stereo camera

 and the

Stereo matching

 components, which acquire stereo image pairs and compute 3D depth
information such as disparity, error, and confidence images, are also
accessible via the

rc_visard

's

GigE Vision/GenICam interface

.

Fig. 19

 gives an overview of the relationships between the different software
components and the data they provide via

rc_visard

's various

interfaces

.


Note: Components marked as

  optional

   extend the

  rc_visard

  's features. Customers can extend the license to purchase additional
  components.

The

rc_visard

's base software consists of the following components:

Stereo camera (rc_stereocamera, Section \ref{stereo_camera:sect-
stereo-camera})  acquires stereo image pairs and performs planar
rectification for using the stereo camera as a measurement device.
Images are provided both for further internal processing by other
components and for external use as GenICam image streams.

Stereo matching (rc_stereomatching, Section \ref{stereo_matching:sect-
stereo-matching})  uses the rectified stereo image pairs to compute 3D
depth information such as disparity, error, and confidence images.
These are provided as GenICam streams, too.

Sensor dynamics (rc_dynamics, Section \ref{dynamics:sect-dynamics}.)
provides estimates of rc_visard's dynamic state such as its pose,
velocity, and acceleration. These states are transmitted as continuous
data streams via the rc_dynamics interface. For this purpose, the
dynamics component manages and fuses data from the following
individual subcomponents:  Visual odometry (rc_stereovisodo, Section
\ref{stereo_visodo:sect-visual-odometry})  estimates the motion of the
rc_visard device based on the motion of characteristic visual features
in the left camera images.  Stereo INS (rc_stereo_ins, Section
\ref{stereo_ins:sect-stereo-ins})  combines visual odometry
measurements with readings from the on-board Inertial Measurement Unit
(IMU) to provide accurate and high-frequency state estimates in real
time.

Camera calibration (rc_stereocalib, Section \ref{camera_calibration
:sect-camera-calibration})  automatically checks and performs the
self-calibration of the rc_visard's stereo camera in case it has been
decalibrated. It furthermore enables the user to check and perform
recalibration manually via the WEB GUI\:(Section \ref{installation
:sect-web-gui}).

Hand-eye calibration (rc_hand_eye_calibration, Section
\ref{handeye_calibration:sect-handeye-calibration})  enables the user
to calibrate the camera with respect to a robot, either via the Web
GUI or the REST-API.

