Stereo matching

The stereo matching component uses the rectified stereo-image pair and
computes disparity, error, and confidence images.

Computing disparity images

After rectification, an object point is guaranteed to be projected
onto the same pixel row in both left and right image. That point's
pixel column in the right image is always lower than or equal to the
same point's pixel column in the left image. The term disparity
signifies the difference between the pixel columns in the right and
left images and expresses the depth or distance of the object point
from the camera. The disparity image stores the disparity values of
all pixels in the left camera image.

The larger the disparity, the closer the object point. A disparity of
0 means that the projections of the object point are in the same image
column and the object point is at infinite distance. Often, there are
pixels for which disparity cannot be determined. This is the case for
occlusions that appear on the left sides of objects, because these
areas are not seen from the right camera. Furthermore, disparity
cannot be determined for textureless areas. Pixels for which the
disparity cannot be determined are marked as invalid with the special
disparity value of 0. To distinguish between invalid disparity
measurements and disparity measurements of 0 for objects that are
infinitely far away, the disparity value for the latter is set to the
smallest possible disparity value above 0.

To compute disparity values, the stereo matching algorithm has to find
corresponding object points in the left and right camera images. These
are points that represent the same object point in the scene. For
stereo matching, the

rc_visard

 uses

SGM

 (

Semi-Global Matching

), which offers quick run times and great accuracy, especially at
object borders, fine structures, and in weakly textured areas.

A key requirement for any stereo matching method is the presence of
texture in the image, i.e., image-intensity changes due to patterns or
surface structure within the scene. In completely untextured regions
such as a flat white wall without any structure, disparity values can
either not be computed or the results are erroneous or have low
confidence (see

Confidence and error images

). The texture in the scene should not be an artificial, repetitive
pattern, since those structures may lead to ambiguities and hence to
wrong disparity measurements.

When working with poorly textured objects or in untextured
environments, a static artificial texture can be projected onto the
scene using an external pattern projector. This pattern should be
random-like and not contain repetitive structures. The

rc_visard

 provides the IOControl component (see

IO and Projector Control

) as optional software module which can control a pattern projector
connected to the

rc_visard

.

Computing depth images and point clouds

The following equations show how to compute an object point's actual
3D coordinates P_x, P_y, P_z in the camera coordinate frame from the
disparity image's pixel coordinates p_{x}, p_{y} and the disparity
value d in pixels:

   P_x&=\frac{p_x \cdot t}{d}\\ P_y&=\frac{p_y \cdot t}{d}\\
   P_z&=\frac{f \cdot t}{d},

where f is the focal length after rectification in pixels and t is the
stereo baseline in meters, which was determined during calibration.
These values are also transferred over the GenICam interface (see

Custom GenICam features of the rc_visard

).

Note: The

  rc_visard

  's camera coordinate frame is defined as shown in

  Coordinate frames

  .

Note: The

  rc_visard

   reports a focal length factor via its various interfaces. It
  relates to the image width for supporting different image
  resolutions. The focal length f in pixels can be easily obtained by
  multiplying the focal length factor by the image width in pixels.

Please note that equations

(1)

 assume that the coordinate frame is centered in the middle of the
image. The following figure shows the definition of the image
coordinate frame.


The same equations, but with the corresponding GenICam parameters are
given in

Image stream conversions

.

The set of all object points computed from the disparity image gives
the point cloud, which can be used for 3D modeling applications. The
disparity image is converted into a depth image by replacing the
disparity value in each pixel with the value of P_z.

Note: Roboception provides software and examples for receiving
  disparity images from the

  rc_visard

   via GigE Vision and computing depth images and point clouds. See

  http://www.roboception.com/download

  .

Confidence and error images

For each disparity image, additionally an error image and a confidence
image are provided, which give uncertainty measures for each disparity
value. These images have the same resolution and the same frame rate
as the disparity image. The error image contains the disparity error
d_{eps} in pixels corresponding to the disparity value at the same
image coordinates in the disparity image. The confidence image
contains the corresponding confidence value c between 0 and 1. The
confidence is defined as the probability of the true disparity value
being within the interval of three times the error around the measured
disparity d, i.e., [d-3d_{eps}, d+3d_{eps}]. Thus, the disparity image
with error and confidence values can be used in applications requiring
probabilistic inference. The confidence and error values corresponding
to an invalid disparity measurement will be 0.

The disparity error d_{eps} (in pixels) can be converted to a depth
error z_{eps} (in meters) using the focal length f (in pixels), the
baseline t (in meters), and the disparity value d (in pixels) of the
same pixel in the disparity image:

   z_{eps}=\frac{d_{eps}\cdot f\cdot t}{d^2}.

Combining equations

(1)

 and

(2)

 allows the depth error to be related to the depth:

   z_{eps}=\frac{d_{eps}\cdot{P_z}^2}{f\cdot t}.

With the focal lengths and baselines of the different

rc_visard

 models and the typical combined calibration and stereo matching error
d_{eps} of 0.25 pixels, the depth accuracy can be visualized as shown
below.


The

rc_visard

 provides time-stamped disparity, error, and confidence images over
the GenICam interface (see

Provided image streams

). Live streams of the images are provided with reduced quality in the

Web GUI

.

Parameters

The stereo matching component is called "rc_stereomatching" in the
REST-API and it is represented by the

Depth Image

 tab in the

Web GUI

. The user can change the stereo matching parameters there, or use the
REST-API (

REST-API interface

) or GigE Vision (

GigE Vision 2.0/GenICam image interface

).

Parameter overview

This component offers the following run-time parameters:

The rc_stereomatching component's run-time parameters
Name  Type  Min  Max  Default  Description  acquisition_mode  string
-  -  Continuous  S(ingleFrame), (SingleFrame)O(ut1) or C(ontinuous)
disprange  int32  32  512  256  Disparity range in pixels  fill  int32
0  4  3  Disparity tolerance for hole filling in pixels  maxdepth
float64  0.1  100.0  100.0  Maximum depth in meters  maxdeptherr
float64  0.01  100.0  100.0  Maximum depth error in meters  median
int32  1  5  1  Window size for median filtering in pixels  minconf
float64  0.5  1.0  0.5  Minimum confidence  mindepth  float64  0.1
100.0  0.1  Minimum depth in meters  quality  string  -  -  High
F(ull), H(igh), M(edium), or L(ow). Full requires 'stereo_plus'
license.  seg  int32  0  4000  200  Minimum size of valid disparity
segments in pixels  smooth  bool  false  true  true  Smoothing of
disparity image (requires 'stereo_plus' license)  static_scene  bool
false  true  false  Accumulation of images in static scenes to reduce
noise

Description of run-time parameters

Each run-time parameter is represented by a row on the Web GUI's

Depth Image

 tab. The name in the Web GUI is given in brackets behind the
parameter name and the parameters are listed in the order they appear
in the Web GUI:


"acquisition_mode" (
Acquisition Mode

)
   The acquisition mode can be set to *Continuous* (C), *Single* (S)
   or *Single + Out1* (O). The first one is the default, which
   performs stereo matching continuously according to the user defined
   frame rate and the available computation resources. The two other
   modes perform stereo matching upon each click of the

   Acquire

    button. The *Single + Out1* mode additionally controls an external
   projector that is connected to GPIO Out1 (

   IO and Projector Control

   ). In this mode, "out1_mode" of the IOControl component is
   automatically set to "ExposureAlternateActive" upon each trigger
   call and reset to "Low" after receiving images for stereo matching.

   Note: The "Single + Out1" mode can only change the "out1_mode" if
     the IOControl license is available on the

     rc_visard

     .

"quality" (
Quality

)
   Disparity images can be computed in different resolutions: high
   (640 x 480), medium (320 x 240) and low (214 x 160). The lower the
   resolution, the higher the frame rate of the disparity image. A 25
   Hz frame rate can be achieved only at the lowest resolution. Please
   note that the frame rate of the disparity, confidence, and error
   images will always be less than or equal to the camera frame rate.

   Additionally, full resolution matching with 1280 x 960 pixel is
   possible with a valid StereoPlus license.

   If full resolution is selected, the disparity range is internally
   limited to 128, due to limited on-board memory resources. Due to
   this limitation, it is not recommended to use the full resolution
   matching in parallel to the

   SLAM

    component.

"static_scene" (
Static

)
   This option averages 8 consecutive camera images before matching.
   This reduces noise, which improves the stereo matching result. The
   timestamp of the first image is taken as timestamp of the disparity
   image. This option only affects matching in full or high quality.
   It must only be enabled if the scene does not change during the
   acquisition of the 8 images.

"disprange" (
Disparity Range

)
   The value given for this parameter is the maximum disparity a pixel
   in the disparity image can have. The range of the disparity image
   always start at 0 and goes up to this value. Increasing the
   disparity range results in a smaller minimum distance that can be
   measured, because larger disparity values mean smaller distances.
   The disparity range is given in pixels and can be set to a value
   between 32 pixels and 512 pixels. Since a larger disparity range
   also means a larger search area for the matching pixel in the right
   rectified image, the processing time increases with a larger
   disparity range and the frame rate decreases. The disparity range's
   value is related to the high quality disparity image with 640 x 480
   pixels and does not have to be scaled when a different quality is
   chosen. Thus, the chosen disparity range gives the same minimum
   distance for every image-quality option.

   If full resolution quality is selected, the disparity range is
   internally limited to 128 pixels, due to limited on-board memory
   resources.

"smooth" (
Smoothing

)
   This option activates advanced smoothing of disparity values. It is
   only available with a valid StereoPlus license.

"fill" (
Fill-in

)
   This option is used to fill holes in the disparity image by
   interpolating a plane. Only holes smaller than the segmentation
   size (see below) are selected for interpolation. The fill-in value
   is the maximum allowed disparity deviation of any of the hole's
   border pixels from the interpolation plane. Only if all of its
   border pixels deviate less than the fill-in value from the plane, a
   hole will be filled. Larger fill-in values decrease the number of
   holes, but the interpolated values can have larger errors. The
   confidence for the interpolated pixels is set to a low value of
   0.5. Their error is set to the mean deviation of the hole border
   pixels from the interpolation plane. A value of 0 effectively
   switches hole filling off.

"seg" (
Segmentation

)
   The segmentation parameter is used to set the minimum number of
   pixels that a connected disparity region in the disparity image
   must fill. Isolated regions that are smaller are set to invalid in
   the disparity image. The value is related to the high quality
   disparity image with 640 x 480 pixels resolution and does not have
   to be scaled when a different quality is chosen. Segmentation is
   useful for removing erroneous disparities. However, larger values
   may also remove real objects.

"median" (
Median

)
   This value gives the window side length in pixels for the median
   filter, which smoothes the disparity image. Larger values lead to
   oversmoothing and cost more processing time. A window size of 1
   effectively turns this filter off.

"minconf" (
Minimum Confidence

)
   The minimum confidence can be set to filter potentially false
   disparity measurements. All pixels with less confidence than the
   chosen value are set to invalid in the disparity image.

"maxdeptherr" (
Maximum Depth Error

)
   The maximum depth error is used to filter measurements that are too
   inaccurate. All pixels with a larger depth error than the chosen
   value are set to invalid in the disparity image. The maximum depth
   error is given in meters. The depth error generally grows
   quadratically with an object's distance from the camera (see

   Confidence and error images

   ).

"mindepth" (
Minimum Distance

)
   The minimum distance is the smallest distance from the camera at
   which measurements should be possible. Larger values implicitly
   reduce the disparity range, which also reduces the computation
   time. The minimum distance is given in meters.

"maxdepth" (
Maximum Distance

)
   The maximum distance is the largest distance from the camera at
   which measurements should be possible. Pixels with larger distance
   values are set to invalid in the disparity image. Setting this
   value to its maximum permits values up to infinity. The maximum
   distance is given in meters.

The same parameters are also available over the GenICam interface with
slightly different names and partly with different data types (see

GigE Vision 2.0/GenICam image interface

).

Status values

This component reports the following status values:

The rc_stereomatching component's status values      Name  Description
fps  Actual frame rate of the disparity, error, and confidence images.
This value is shown in the Web GUI below the image preview as FPS
(Hz).  latency  Time in seconds between image aquisition and
publishing of disparity image  time_matching  Time in seconds for
performing stereo matching using SGM on the GPU  time_postprocessing
Time in seconds for postprocessing the matching result on the CPU

Since SGM stereo matching and post processing run in parallel, the
overall processing time for this component is the maximum of
"time_matching" and "time_postprocessing".

Services

The stereo matching component offers the following services for
persisting and restoring parameter settings.

acquisition_trigger

   This call signals the module to perform stereo matching of the next
   available images, if the parameter "acquisition_mode" is set to S
   (*SingleFrame*) or O (*SingleFrame+Out1*). An error is returned if
   the "acquisition_mode" is set to C (*Continuous*).

   This service has no arguments.

   The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

      {
        "return_code": {
          "message": "string",
          "value": "int16"
        }
      }

   Possible return codes are shown below.

   Possible return codes of the acquisition_trigger service call.
   Code  Description  0  Success  -8  Triggering is only possible in
   SingleFrame acquisition mode  101  Trigger is ignored, because
   there is a trigger call pending  102  Trigger is ignored, because
   there are no subscribers

save_parameters

   With this service call, the stereo matching component's current
   parameter settings are persisted to the

   rc_visard

   . That means, these values are applied even after reboot.

   This service has no arguments.

   The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

      {
        "return_code": {
          "message": "string",
          "value": "int16"
        }
      }

reset_defaults

   Restores and applies the default values for this component's
   parameters ("factory reset").

   Warning: The user must be aware that calling this service causes
     the current parameter settings for the stereo matching component
     to be irrecoverably lost.

   This service has no arguments.

   The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

      {
        "return_code": {
          "message": "string",
          "value": "int16"
        }
      }
