Region of interest functionality

Introduction

The region of interest (ROI) functionality is contained in an internal
ROI component and can only be used through the software components
providing a ROI functionality.

The ROI functionality is provided by the

ItemPick and BoxPick

 modules.

Region of interest

A region of interest (ROI) defines a volume in space which is of
interest for a specific user-application. A ROI can narrow the volume
where a load carrier is searched for, or select a volume which only
contains items to be detected and/or grasped. Processing times can
significantly decrease when using a ROI.

Currently, regions of interest of the following types ("type") are
supported:

   BOX, with dimensions box.x, box.y, box.z.

   SPHERE, with radius sphere.radius.

The user can specify the region of interest "pose" in the "camera" or
the "external" coordinate system. "External" can only be chosen if a

Hand-eye calibration

 is available. When the

rc_visard

 is robot mounted, and the region of interest is defined in the
external frame, the current robot pose must be given to every detect
service call that uses this region of interest.

The

rc_visard

 can persistently store up to 50 different regions of interest, each
one identified by a different "id". The configuration of regions of
interest is normally performed offline, during the set up of the
desired application. This can be done via the

REST-API interface

 or in the

rc_visard

 Web GUI on the page of the module offering the region of interest
functionality.

Note: The configured regions of interest are persistent even over
  firmware updates and rollbacks.

Parameters

The ROI component does not have any parameters.

Services

The user can explore and call the ROI component's services, e.g. for
development and testing, using the

REST-API interface

 or the

rc_visard


Web GUI

 page of the module offering the ROI functionality.

Each service response contains a "return_code", which consists of a
"value" plus an optional "message". A successful service returns with
a "return_code" value of "0". Negative "return_code" values indicate
that the service failed. Positive "return_code" values indicate that
the service succeeded with additional information. The smaller value
is selected in case a service has multiple "return_code" values, but
all messages are appended in the "return_code" message.

The following table contains a list of common codes:

Return codes of the region of interest services      Code  Description
0  Success  -1  An invalid argument was provided  -10  New element
could not be added as the maximum storage capacity of regions of
interest has been exceeded  10  The maximum storage capacity of
regions of interest has been reached  11  An existent persistent model
was overwritten by the call to set_region_of_interest

All software components providing the ROI functionality offer the
following services.

set_region_of_interest

   Persistently stores a region of interest on the

   rc_visard

   . All configured regions of interest are persistent over firmware
   updates and rollbacks.

   The definition for the request arguments with corresponding
   datatypes is:

      {
        "args": {
          "region_of_interest": {
            "box": {
              "x": "float64",
              "y": "float64",
              "z": "float64"
            },
            "id": "string",
            "pose": {
              "orientation": {
                "w": "float64",
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64",
                "z": "float64"
              },
              "position": {
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64",
                "z": "float64"
              }
            },
            "pose_frame": "string",
            "sphere": {
              "radius": "float64"
            },
            "type": "string"
          }
        }
      }

   Details for the definition of the "region_of_interest" type are
   given in

   Region of interest

   .

   The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

      {
        "name": "set_region_of_interest",
        "response": {
          "return_code": {
            "message": "string",
            "value": "int16"
          }
        }
      }

get_regions_of_interest

   Returns the configured regions of interest with the requested
   "region_of_interest_ids". If no "region_of_interest_ids" are
   provided, all configured regions of interest are returned.

   The definition for the request arguments with corresponding
   datatypes is:

      {
        "args": {
          "region_of_interest_ids": [
            "string"
          ]
        }
      }

   The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

      {
        "name": "get_regions_of_interest",
        "response": {
          "regions_of_interest": [
            {
              "box": {
                "x": "float64",
                "y": "float64",
                "z": "float64"
              },
              "id": "string",
              "pose": {
                "orientation": {
                  "w": "float64",
                  "x": "float64",
                  "y": "float64",
                  "z": "float64"
                },
                "position": {
                  "x": "float64",
                  "y": "float64",
                  "z": "float64"
                }
              },
              "pose_frame": "string",
              "sphere": {
                "radius": "float64"
              },
              "type": "string"
            }
          ],
          "return_code": {
            "message": "string",
            "value": "int16"
          }
        }
      }

delete_regions_of_interest

   Deletes the configured regions of interest with the requested
   "region_of_interest_ids". All regions of interest to be deleted
   must be explicitly stated in "region_of_interest_ids".

   The definition for the request arguments with corresponding
   datatypes is:

      {
        "args": {
          "region_of_interest_ids": [
            "string"
          ]
        }
      }

   The definition for the response with corresponding datatypes is:

      {
        "name": "delete_regions_of_interest",
        "response": {
          "return_code": {
            "message": "string",
            "value": "int16"
          }
        }
      }
