Web GUI

The

rc_visard

's Web GUI can be used to test, calibrate, and configure the device.

Accessing the Web GUI

The Web GUI can be accessed from any web browser, such as Firefox,
Google Chrome, or Microsoft Edge, via the

rc_visard

's IP address. The easiest way to access the Web GUI is to simply
double click on the desired device using the "rcdiscover-gui" tool as
explained in

Discovery of rc_visard devices

.

Alternatively, some network environments automatically configure the
unique host name of the

rc_visard

 in their Domain Name Server (

DNS

). In this case, the Web GUI can also be accessed directly using the

URL

 "http://<host-name>" by replacing "<host-name>" with the device's
host name.

For Linux and Mac operating systems, this even works without DNS via
the multicast Domain Name System (

mDNS

), which is automatically used if ".local" is appended to the host
name. Thus, the URL simply becomes "http://<host-name>.local".

Exploring the Web GUI

The Web GUI's overview page gives the most important information about
the device and the software components.


The page's top row permits access to the individual pages of the

rc_visard

's Web GUI:

Camera

   shows a live stream of the left and right rectified camera images.
   The frame rate can be reduced to save bandwidth when streaming to a
   GigE VisionÂ® client. Furthermore, exposure can be set manually or
   automatically. See

   Parameters

    for more information.

Depth Image

   shows a live stream of the left rectified, depth, and confidence
   images. The page contains various settings for depth-image
   computation and filtering. See

   Parameters

    for more information.

Dynamics

   shows the location and movement of image features that are used to
   compute the

   rc_visard

   's egomotion. Settings include the number of corners and features
   that should be used. See

   Parameters

    for more information.

Camera Calibration

   permits the camera to be checked for proper calibration. In rare
   cases when the camera is no longer sufficiently calibrated,
   calibration also can be performed using this module. See

   Camera calibration

    for more information.

Hand-Eye-Calibration

   allows the computation of the static transformation between the
   camera and a coordinate system known in the robot system. This can
   be the flange coordinate system of a robotic arm if the camera is
   attached to the flange. Alternatively, the camera may be mounted
   statically in the robot environment and calibrated to any other
   static frame known in the robot system. See

   Hand-eye calibration

    for more information.

Modules

   gives access to the optional software components of the

   rc_visard

    (see

   Optional software components

   ).

Logs

   permits access to the log files on the

   rc_visard

   . The log files are typically checked if errors are suspected.

System

   gives access to general settings and device information, and
   permits the firmware or the license file to be updated.

Note: Changed parameters are not persistent and will be lost when
  restarting the

  rc_visard

   unless they are saved by pressing the

  Save

   button before leaving the corresponding page.

Note: Further information on all parameters in the Web GUI can be
  obtained by pressing the

  Info

   button next to each parameter.

Downloading stereo camera images

The Web GUI provides an easy way to download a snapshot of the current
scene as a .tar.gz file by clicking on the camera icon below the image
live streams on the

Camera

 tab. This snapshot contains:

the rectified left and right camera images in full resolution as .png
files,

a camera parameter file containing the camera matrix, image
dimensions, exposure time, gain value and the stereo baseline,

the current IMU readings as imu.csv file,

a nodes.json file containing information about all nodes running on
the rc_visard,

a system_info.json file containing system information about the
rc_visard.

The filenames contain the timestamps.

Downloading depth images and point clouds

The Web GUI provides an easy way to download the depth data of the
current scene as a .tar.gz file by clicking on the camera icon below
the image live streams on the

Depth image

 tab. This snapshot contains:

the rectified left and right camera images in full resolution as .png
files,

an image parameter file corresponding to the left image containing the
camera matrix, image dimensions, exposure time, gain value and the
stereo baseline,

the disparity, error and confidence images in the resolution
corresponding to the currently chosen quality as .png files,

a disparity parameter file corrsponding to the disparity image
containing the camera matrix, image dimensions, exposure time, gain
value and the stereo baseline, and information about the disparity
values (i.e. invalid values, scale, offset),

a point cloud in the current depth quality (resolution) as .ply file,

the current IMU readings as imu.csv file,

a nodes.json file containing information about all nodes running on
the rc_visard,

a system_info.json file containing system information about the
rc_visard.

The filenames contain the timestamps.

Note: Downloading a depth snapshot will trigger an acquisition in
  the same way as clicking on the "Acquire" button on the

  Depth Image

   page of the Web GUI, and, thus, might affect running applications.
