Sensor dynamics

The dynamics component provides estimates of the sensor state. These
include pose, linear velocity, linear acceleration, and rotational
rates. The module handles starting and stopping, and streaming of the
estimates for individual subcomponents:

Visual odometry (rc_stereovisodo)  estimates the camera’s motion from
the motion of characteristic image points in the left camera
images\:(Section \ref{stereo_visodo:sect-visual-odometry}).

Stereo INS (rc_stereo_ins)  combines visual odometry measurements with
readings from an inertial measurement unit (IMU) to provide accurate,
high-frequency state estimates in real time\:(Section \ref{stereo_ins
:sect-stereo-ins}).

SLAM (optional) (rc_slam)  performs simultaneous localization and
mapping (SLAM) for correcting accumulated poses\:(Section \ref{slam
:sect-slam}).

Coordinate frames for state estimation

The world coordinate frame for state estimation is defined as follows:
The coordinate frame’s z-axis points upward and is aligned with the
gravity vector. The x-axis is orthogonal to the z-axis and points in
the

rc_visard

’s viewing direction at the time when the pose estimation starts. The
world frame’s origin is located at the origin of the

rc_visard

’s IMU coordinate frame at the instant when state estimation is
switched on.

If pose estimation is switched on when the

rc_visard

’s viewing direction parallels the gravity vector (with a tolerance
range of 10 degrees), then the world coordinate frame’s y-axis is
aligned either with the IMU’s positive or negative x-axis. In this
orientation, the initial alignment of the world coordinate frame is no
longer continuous. Thus, special care has to be taken when pose
estimation has to be started at such an orientation.


The transformation between the IMU coordinate frame and the
camera/sensor frame is also estimated and provided in the

real-time dynamics stream

 over the rc_dynamics interface (see

Interfaces

).

Available state estimates

The

rc_visard

 provides seven different kinds of timestamped state-estimate data
streams via the rc_dynamics interface (see

The rc_dynamics interface

):

        Name  Frequency  Source  Description  pose  25 Hz  best effort
Pose of camera frame, slightly delayed but most accurate  pose_ins  25
Hz  Stereo INS  Pose of camera frame, slightly delayed but most
accurate  pose_rt  200 Hz  best effort  Pose of camera frame
pose_rt_ins  200 Hz  Stereo INS  Pose of camera frame  dynamics  200
Hz  best effort  Pose, velocity and acceleration in IMU frame
dynamics_ins  200 Hz  Stereo INS  Pose, velocity and acceleration in
IMU frame  imu  200 Hz  Stereo INS  Raw IMU data

Best effort

 here means that if

SLAM

 is available, then it contains the loop-closure corrected estimates
and is equivalent to the stream from

Stereo INS

 when SLAM is unavailable.

Camera-pose streams (pose and pose_ins)

The

camera-pose streams

  called "pose" and "pose_ins" are provided at 25 Hz with timestamps
that correspond to image timestamps. The former stream is the best-
effort estimate, combining "rc_slam" and "rc_stereo_ins" if a license
for the

SLAM

 module is available. If no license is available, then both data
streams are equivalent. Pose values are given in world coordinates,
and also refer to the

rc_visard

’s camera frame origin (see

Coordinate frames for state estimation

). They are the most accurate estimates, taking all available

rc_visard

 information into consideration. They can be used in modeling
applications, where camera images, depth images, or point clouds have
to be aligned highly accurately with each other. To ensure the
greatest possible accuracy, these pose values are delayed until a
corresponding visual odometry measurement is available.

Real-time camera-pose streams (pose_rt and pose_rt_ins)

Two

real-time pose streams

 called "pose_rt" and "pose_rt_ins" are provided at the IMU rate of
200 Hz. The former stream is the best-effort estimate, combining
"rc_slam" and "rc_stereo_ins" when a license for the SLAM module is
available. If no license is available, then both data streams are
equivalent. They consist of the pose estimates of the

rc_visard

’s camera frame origin (see

Coordinate frames for state estimation

) in world coordinates. The values given in these streams correspond
to the values in the

real-time dynamics streams

, but give the pose of the sensor/camera coordinate frame instead of
that of the IMU coordinate frame.

Real-time dynamics streams (dynamics and dynamics_ins)

Two

real-time dynamics streams

 called "dynamics" and "dynamics_ins" are provided at the IMU rate of
200 Hz. The former stream is the best-effort estimate, combining
"rc_slam" and "rc_stereo_ins" when a license for the SLAM module is
available. If no license is available, then both data streams are
equivalent. The estimates can be used for real-time control of a
robot. Since the values are provided in real time and visual odometry
computation requires some processing time, the latest visual odometry
estimate may not be included. Therefore, these estimates are in
general slightly less accurate than those in the non-real-time

camera-pose streams

 (see above), but are the best estimates available at this instant.
The provided dynamics streams contain the

rc_visard

’s

translation  in ,

rotation  as unit quaternion,

linear velocities  in ,

angular velocities  in ,

gravity-compensated linear accelerations  in , and

transformation from camera to IMU coordinate frame as pose with frame
name and parent frame name.

For each component, the stream also provides the name of the
coordinate frame in which the values are given. Translation, rotation,
and linear velocities are given in the world frame; angular velocities
and accelerations are given in the IMU frame (see

Coordinate frames for state estimation

). All values refer to the IMU frame’s origin. That means, for
example, that linear velocity is the velocity of the IMU frame’s
origin in the world frame.

Lastly, the stream contains a "possible_jump" flag, which is set to

true

 whenever the optional SLAM module (see

SLAM (optional)

) corrects the state estimation after finding a loop closure. The
state estimate can jump in this case, which should be considered when
the values are used in a control loop. If SLAM is not running, the
jump flag can be ignored and will stay

false

.

IMU data stream (imu)

The

IMU data stream

 called "imu" is provided at the IMU rate of 200 Hz. It consists of
the acceleration in x, y, z directions plus the angular velocities
around these three axis. The values are calibrated but not bias- and
gravity-compensated, and are given in the IMU frame. The
transformation between IMU and sensor frame is provided in the

real-time dynamics stream

.

Services

The sensor dynamics component offers the following services for
starting, stopping, and restarting dynamics/motion estimation. It can
also be switched on and off in the

Dynamics

 area of the

Web GUI

’s

Overview

 tab.

"start"
   Starts the component.

   This service requires no arguments.

   This service returns the following response:

      {
        "accepted": "bool",
        "enteredState": "uint8"
      }

"stop"
   Stops the component.

   This service requires no arguments.

   This service returns the following response:

      {
        "accepted": "bool",
        "enteredState": "uint8"
      }

"restart"
   Restarts the component.

   This service requires no arguments.

   This service returns the following response:

      {
        "accepted": "bool",
        "enteredState": "uint8"
      }

"getstate"
   Returns the component’s current state.

   This service requires no arguments.

   This service returns the following response:

      {
        "accepted": "bool",
        "enteredState": "uint8"
      }
