GigE Vision 2.0/GenICam image interface

Gigabit Ethernet for Machine Vision (“GigE Vision®” for short) is an
industrial camera interface standard based on UDP/IP (see

http://www.gigevision.com

). The

rc_visard

 is a GigE Vision® version 2.0 device and is hence compatible with all
GigE Vision® 2.0 compliant frameworks and libraries.

GigE Vision® uses GenICam to describe the camera/device features. For
more information about this

Generic Interface for Cameras

 see

http://www.genicam.org/

.

Via this interface the

rc_visard

 provides features such as

discovery,

IP configuration,

configuration of camera related parameters,

image grabbing, and

time synchronization via IEEE 1588-2008 PrecisionTimeProtocol (PTPv2).

Note: The

  rc_visard

   supports jumbo frames of up to 9000 bytes. Setting an MTU of 9000
  on your GigE Vision client side is recommended for best performance.

Note: Roboception provides tools and a C++ API with examples for
  discovery, configuration, and image streaming via the GigE
  Vision/GenICam interface. See

  http://www.roboception.com/download

  .

Important GenICam parameters

The following list gives an overview of the relevant GenICam features
of the

rc_visard

 that can be read and/or changed via the GenICam interface. In
addition to the standard parameters, which are defined in the Standard
Feature Naming Convention (SFNC, see

http://www.emva.org/standards-technology/genicam/genicam-downloads/

),

rc_visard

 devices also offer custom parameters that account for special
features of the

Stereo camera

 and the

Stereo matching

 component.

Important standard GenICam features

"ComponentSelector"
   type: Enumeration, one of Intensity, IntensityCombined, Disparity,
   Confidence, or Error

   default: -

   description: Allows the user to select one of the five image
   streams for configuration (see Provided image streams, \:Section
   \ref{gigevision:sect-provided-image-streams}).

"ComponentIDValue" (read-only)
   type: Integer

   description: The ID of the image stream selected by the
   ComponentSelector.

"ComponentEnable"
   type: Boolean

   default: -

   description: If set to true, it enables the image stream selected
   by ComponentSelector; otherwise, it disables the stream. Using
   ComponentSelector and ComponentEnable, individual image streams can
   be switched on and off.

"Width", "WidthMax" (read-only)
   type: Integer

   description: Maximum width of an image, which is always 1280
   pixels.

"Height", "HeightMax" (read-only)
   type: Integer

   description: Maximum height of an image in the streams. This is
   always 1920 pixels due to the stacked left and right images in the
   IntensityCombined stream (see Provided image streams, Section
   \ref{gigevision:sect-provided-image-streams}).

"PixelFormat"
   type: Enumeration, Mono8 or YCbCr411_8 (color sensors only)

   description: Pixel format of the left and right rectified images
   that are returned in the components Intensity and
   IntensityCombined. The YCbCr411_8 format is only available for
   color cameras.

"AcquisitionFrameRate"
   type: Float, ranges from 1 Hz to 25 Hz

   default: 25 Hz

   description: Frame rate of the camera (FPS, Section
   \ref{stereo_camera:sect-cam-params}).

"ExposureAuto"
   type: Enumeration, one of Continuous or Off

   default: Continuous

   description: Can be set to Off for manual exposure mode or to
   Continuous for auto exposure mode (Exposure, Section
   \ref{stereo_camera:sect-cam-params}).

"ExposureTime"
   type: Float, ranges from 66 µs to 18000 µs

   default: 5000 µs

   description: The cameras’ exposure time in microseconds for the
   manual exposure mode (Manual, Section \ref{stereo_camera:sect-cam-
   params}).

"GainSelector" (read-only)
   type: Enumeration, is always All

   default: All

   description: The rc_visard currently supports only one overall gain
   setting.

"Gain"
   type: Float, ranges from 0 dB to 18 dB

   default: 0 dB

   description: The cameras’ gain value in decibel that is used in
   manual exposure mode (Gain, Section \ref{stereo_camera:sect-cam-
   params}).

"BalanceWhiteAuto" (color sensors only)
   type: Enumeration, one of Continuous or Off

   default: Continuous

   description: Can be set to Off for manual white balancing mode or
   to Continuous for auto white balancing. This feature is only
   available on color sensors (wb_auto, Section \ref{stereo_camera
   :sect-cam-params}).

"BalanceRatioSelector" (color sensors only)
   type: Enumeration, one of Red or Blue

   default: Red

   description: Selects ratio to be modified by BalanceRatio. Red
   means red to green ratio and Blue means blue to green ratio. This
   feature is only available on color sensors.

"BalanceRatio" (color sensors only)
   type: Float, ranges from 0.125 to 8

   default: 1.2 if Red and 2.4 if Blue is selected in
   BalanceRatioSelector

   description: Weighting of red or blue to green color channel. This
   feature is only available on color sensors (wb_ratio, Section
   \ref{stereo_camera:sect-cam-params}).

"GevIEEE1588"
   type: Boolean

   default: false

   description: Switches PTP synchronization on and off.

"Scan3dDistanceUnit" (read-only)
   type: Enumeration, is always Pixel

   description: Unit for the disparity measurements, which is always
   Pixel.

"Scan3dOutputMode" (read-only)
   type: Enumeration, is always DisparityC

   description: Mode for the depth measurements, which is always
   DisparityC.

"Scan3dCoordinateScale" (read-only)
   type: Float

   description: The scale factor that has to be multiplied with the
   disparity values in the disparity image stream to get the actual
   disparity measurements. This value is always 0.0625.

"Scan3dCoordinateOffset" (read-only)
   type: Float

   description: The offset that has to be added to the disparity
   values in the disparity image stream to get the actual disparity
   measurements. However, this value is always 0 and can therefore be
   disregarded.

"Scan3dInvalidDataFlag" (read-only)
   type: Boolean

   description: Is always true, which means that invalid data in the
   disparity image is marked by a specific value defined by the
   Scan3dInvalidDataValue parameter.

"Scan3dInvalidDataValue" (read-only)
   type: Float

   description: Is the value which stands for invalid disparity. This
   value is always 0, which means that disparity values of 0
   correspond to invalid measurements. To distinguish between invalid
   disparity measurements and disparity measurements of 0 for objects
   which are infinitely far away, we set the disparity value for the
   latter to the smallest possible disparity value of 0.0625. This
   still corresponds to an object distance of several hundred meters.

Custom GenICam features of the rc_visard

"ExposureTimeAutoMax"
   type: Float, ranges from 66 µs to 18000 µs

   default: 7000 µs

   description: Maximal exposure time in auto exposure mode (Auto,
   Section \ref{stereo_camera:sect-cam-params}).

"FocalLengthFactor" (read-only)
   type: Float

   description: The focal length scaled to an image width of 1 pixel.
   To get the focal length in pixels for a certain image, this value
   must be multiplied by the width of the received image.

"Baseline" (read-only)
   type: Float

   description: The distance in meters between the left and the right
   camera.

"DepthQuality"
   type: Enumeration, one of Low, Medium, High, or StaticHigh

   default: High

   description: Quality of the disparity images. Lower quality results
   in disparity images with lower resolution (Quality, Section
   \ref{stereo_matching:sect-disp-image-parameters}).

"DepthDispRange"
   type: Integer, ranges from 32 pixels to 512 pixels

   default: 256 pixels

   description: Maximum disparity value in pixels (Disparity Range,
   Section \ref{stereo_matching:sect-disp-image-parameters}).

"DepthFill"
   type: Integer, ranges from 0 pixel to 4 pixels

   default: 3 pixels

   description: Value in pixels for Fill-In\:(Section
   \ref{stereo_matching:sect-disp-image-parameters}).

"DepthSeg"
   type: Integer, ranges from 0 pixel to 4000 pixels

   default: 200 pixels

   description: Value in pixels for Segmentation\:(Section
   \ref{stereo_matching:sect-disp-image-parameters}).

"DepthMedian"
   type: Integer, ranges from 1 pixel to 5 pixels

   default: 1 pixel

   description: Value in pixels for Median filter smoothing\:(Section
   \ref{stereo_matching:sect-disp-image-parameters}).

"DepthMinConf"
   type: Float, ranges from 0.0 to 1.0

   default: 0.0

   description: Value for Minimum Confidence filtering\:(Section
   \ref{stereo_matching:sect-disp-image-parameters}).

"DepthMinDepth"
   type: Float, ranges from 0.1 m to 100.0 m

   default: 0.1 m

   description: Value in meters for Minimum Distance
   filtering\:(Section \ref{stereo_matching:sect-disp-image-
   parameters}).

"DepthMaxDepth"
   type: Float, ranges from 0.1m to 100.0 m

   default: 100.0 m

   description: Value in meters for Maximum Distance
   filtering\:(Section \ref{stereo_matching:sect-disp-image-
   parameters}).

"DepthMaxDepthErr"
   type: Float, ranges from 0.01 m to 100.0 m

   default: 100.0 m

   description: Value in meters for Maximum Depth Error
   filtering\:(Section \ref{stereo_matching:sect-disp-image-
   parameters}).

Provided image streams

The

rc_visard

 provides the following five different image streams via the GenICam
interface:

        Component name  PixelFormat  Width×Height  Description
Intensity  Mono8 (monochrome sensors)  YCbCr411_8 (color sensors)
1280×960  Left rectified camera image  IntensityCombined  Mono8
(monochrome sensors)  YCbCr411_8 (color sensors)  1280×1920  Left
rectified camera image stacked on right rectified camera image
Disparity  Coord3D_C16  640×480  320×240  214×160  Disparity image in
desired resolution, i.e., High, Medium, or Low  Confidence
Confidence8  same as Disparity  Confidence image  Error  custom:
0x81080001  same as Disparity  Disparity error image

Each image comes with a buffer timestamp and the

PixelFormat

 given in the above table. This PixelFormat should be used to
distinguish between the different image types. Images belonging to the
same acquisition timestamp can be found by comparing the GenICam
buffer timestamps.

Image stream conversions

The disparity image contains 16 bit unsigned integer values. These
values must be multiplied by the scale value given in the GenICam
feature

Scan3dCoordinateScale

 to get the disparity values d in pixels. To compute the 3D object
coordinates from the disparity values, the focal length and the
baseline are required. These parameters are transmitted as GenICam
features

FocalLengthFactor

 and

Baseline

. The

FocalLengthFactor

 value has to be multiplied by the width of the disparity image to get
the focal length f in pixels for the given disparity image resolution.
Knowing these values, the pixel coordinates and the disparities can be
transformed into 3D object coordinates in the sensor coordinate frame
(see

Coordinate frames

) using the equations described in

Computing depth images and point clouds

.

Assuming that d_{ik} is the 16 bit disparity value at column i and row
k of a disparity image with w columns and h rows, the 3D
reconstruction in meters can be written with the GenICam parameters as

   P_x&=\left(i-\frac{w}{2}\right) \frac{\mathrm{Baseline}}{d_{ik}
   \cdot \mathrm{Scan3dCoordinateScale}},\\
   P_y&=\left(k-\frac{h}{2}\right) \frac{\mathrm{Baseline}}{d_{ik}
   \cdot \mathrm{Scan3dCoordinateScale}},\\
   P_z&=\left(\mathrm{FocalLengthFactor} \cdot w \right)
   \frac{\mathrm{Baseline}}{d_{ik} \cdot
   \mathrm{Scan3dCoordinateScale}}.

The confidence image contains 8 bit unsigned integer values. These
values have to be divided by 255 to get the confidence as value
between 0 an 1.

The error image contains 8 bit unsigned integer values. The error
e_{ik} must be multiplied by the scale value given in the GenICam
feature

Scan3dCoordinateScale

 to get the disparity-error values d_{eps} in pixels. According to the
description in

Confidence and error images

, the depth error z_{eps} in meters can be computed with GenICam
parameters as

   z_{eps}=\frac{e_{ik} \cdot \mathrm{Scan3dCoordinateScale} \cdot
   \mathrm{FocalLengthFactor}               \cdot w \cdot
   \mathrm{Baseline}}              {(d_{ik} \cdot
   \mathrm{Scan3dCoordinateScale})^2}.

For more information about disparity, error, and confidence images,
please refer to

Stereo matching

.
