Stereo camera

The stereo camera component contains functionality for acquiring
stereo image pairs and performing planar rectification needed to use
the stereo camera as a measurement device.

Image acquisition

Acquiring stereo image pairs is the first step toward stereo vision.
Since both cameras are equipped with global shutters and their chips
are hardware-synchronized, all pixels of both camera images are always
exposed at the exactly same time. GPIO out 1 signals the respective
exposure time (see

Wiring

). Additionally, the time in the middle of the image exposure is
attached to the images as a timestamp. This timestamp becomes
important for dynamic applications in which the

rc_visard

 or the scene moves.

Exposure time can be set manually to a fixed value. This is useful in
an environment where lighting is controlled so that it is always at
the same intensity. The camera is set to auto exposure by default. In
this mode, the

rc_visard

 chooses the exposure time automatically, up to a user defined
maximum. The permitted maximum is meant to limit the motion blur that
occurs when taking images while the

rc_visard

 or the scene is moving. The maximum exposure time thus depends on the
application. If the maximum exposure time is reached, the auto-
exposure algorithm uses the gain to increase image brightness.
However, larger gain factors also amplify image noise. Thus, the
maximum exposure time trades motion blur off against image noise under
weak-light conditions.

Planar rectification

Camera parameters such as focal length, lens distortion, and the
relationship of the cameras to each other must be exactly known to use
the stereo camera as a measuring instrument. The parameters are
determined by calibration (see

Camera calibration

). The

rc_visard

 is already calibrated at production time and normally requires no
recalibration. The camera parameters describe with great precision all
of the stereo-camera system’s geometric properties, but the resulting
model is complex and difficult to use.

Rectification is the process of remapping the images according to an
ideal stereo-camera model. Lens distortion is removed and the images
are aligned so that an object point is always projected onto the same
image row in both images. The cameras’ optical axes become exactly
parallel. This means that points at infinite distance are projected
onto the same image column in both images. The closer an object point
is, the larger is the difference between its image columns in the
right and left images. This difference is called disparity.

Mathematically, the object point P=(P_x, P_y, P_z) is projected onto
image point p_l=(p_{lx}, p_{ly}, 1) in the left rectified image and
onto p_r=(p_{rx}, p_{ry}, 1) in the right rectified image by

   A &= \left(\begin{array}{ccc} f & 0 & \frac{w}{2}\\
   0 & f & \frac{h}{2}\\                         0 & 0 & 1
   \end{array}\right), \qquad T_s = \left(\begin{array}{c}t\\
   0\\                         0 \end{array}\right),  s_1 p_l &= AP,
   \\ s_2 p_r &= A(P-T_s).

The focal length f is the distance between the common image plane and
the optical centers of the left and right cameras. It is measured in
pixels. The baseline t is the distance between the optical centers of
the two cameras. The image width w and height h are measured in
pixels, too. s_1 and s_2 are scale factors ensuring that the third
coordinates of the image points p_l and p_r are equal to 1.

The

rc_visard

 provides the time-stamped, rectified left and right images over the
GenICam interface (see

Provided image streams

). Live streams of the images are provided with reduced quality in the

Web GUI

.

Note: The

  rc_visard

   reports a focal length factor via its various interfaces. It
  relates to the image width for supporting different image
  resolutions. The focal length f in pixels can be easily obtained by
  multiplying the focal length factor by the image width in pixels.

Parameters

The stereo-camera software component is called "rc_stereocamera" and
is represented by the

Camera

 tab in the

Web GUI

. The user can change the camera parameters there, or directly via the
REST-API (

REST-API interface

) or GigE Vision (

GigE Vision 2.0/GenICam image interface

).

Note: Camera parameters cannot be changed via the Web GUI or REST-
  API if

  rc_visard

   is used via GigE Vision.

Parameter overview

This component offers the following run-time parameters.

The rc_stereocamera component’s run-time parameters              Name
Type  Min  Max  Default  Description  exp_auto  bool  0  1  1
Switching between auto and manual exposure  exp_max  float64  6.6e-05
0.018  0.007  Maximum exposure time in seconds if exp_auto is true
exp_value  float64  6.6e-05  0.018  0.005  Manual exposure time in
seconds if exp_auto is false  fps  float64  1  25  25  Frames per
second in Hertz  gain_value  float64  0  18  0  Manual gain value in
decibel if exp_auto is false  wb_auto  bool  0  1  1  Switching white
balance on and off (only for color camera)  wb_ratio_blue  float64
0.125  8  2.4  Blue to green balance ratio if wb_auto is false (only
for color camera)  wb_ratio_red  float64  0.125  8  1.2  Red to green
balance ratio if wb_auto is false (only for color camera)

This component reports the following status values.

The rc_stereocamera component’s status values      Name  Description
baseline  Stereo baseline  in meters  color  0 for monochrome cameras,
1 for color cameras  exp  Actual exposure time in seconds. This value
is shown below the image preview in the Web GUI as Exposure (ms).
focal  Focal length factor normalized to an image width of 1  fps
Actual frame rate of the camera images in Hertz. This value is shown
in the Web GUI below the image preview as FPS (Hz).  gain  Actual gain
factor in decibel. This value is shown in the Web GUI below the image
preview as Gain (dB).  height  Height of the camera image in pixels
temp_left  Temperature of the left camera sensor in degrees Celsius
temp_right  Temperature of the right camera sensor in degrees Celsius
time  Processing time for image grabbing in seconds  width  Width of
the camera image in pixels

Description of run-time parameters


"fps" (
FPS

)
   This value is the cameras’ frame rate (fps, frames per second),
   which determines the upper frequency at which depth images can be
   computed. This is also the frequency at which the

   rc_visard

    delivers images via GigE Vision. Reducing this frequency also
   reduces the network bandwidth required to transmit the images.

"exp_auto" (
Exposure

)
   This value can be set to 1 for auto-exposure mode, or to 0 for
   manual exposure mode. In manual exposure mode, the chosen exposure
   time is kept, even if the images are overexposed or underexposed.
   In auto-exposure mode, the exposure time and gain factor is chosen
   automatically to correctly expose the image.

"exp_value" (
Manual

)
   This value is the exposure time in manual exposure mode in seconds.
   This exposure time is kept constant even if the images are
   underexposed. In the Web GUI, this exposure time can be entered in
   milliseconds for convenience.

"gain_value"
   This value is the gain factor in decibel that can be set in manual
   exposure mode. Higher gain factors reduce the required exposure
   time but introduce noise. The value can only be set through the
   REST-API and GenICam, but not in the Web GUI.

"exp_max" (
Auto

)
   This value is the maximal exposure time in auto-exposure mode in
   seconds. In the Web GUI, this exposure time can be conveniently
   entered in milliseconds. The actual exposure time is adjusted
   automatically so that the images are exposed correctly. If the
   maximum exposure time is reached, but the images are still
   underexposed, the

   rc_visard

    stepwise increases the gain to increase the images’ brightness.
   Limiting the exposure time is useful for avoiding or reducing
   motion blur during fast movements. However, higher gain introduces
   noise into the image. The best trade-off depends on the
   application.

"wb_auto"
   This value can be set to 1 for automatic white balancing or 0 for
   manually setting the ratio between the colors using "wb_ratio_red"
   and "wb_ratio_blue". White balancing is without function for
   monochrome cameras. The value can only be set through the REST-API
   and GenICam, but not in the Web GUI.

"wb_ratio_red" and "wb_ratio_blue"
   These values are used to set red to green and blue to green ratios
   for manual white balance. White balancing is without function for
   monochrome cameras. The values can only be set through the REST-API
   and GenICam, but not in the Web GUI.

These parameters are also available over the GenICam interface with
slightly different names and partly with different units or data types
(see

GigE Vision 2.0/GenICam image interface

).

Services

The stereo camera component offers the following services for
persisting and restoring parameter settings.

"save_parameters"  (
Save

)
   With this service call, the stereo camera component’s current
   parameter settings will be made persistent to the

   rc_visard

   . That is, these values are applied even after reboot.

   This service requires no arguments.

   This service returns no response.

"reset_defaults"  (
Reset

)
   Restores and applies the default values for this component’s
   parameters (“factory reset”).

   Warning: The user must be aware that by calling this service, the
     current parameter settings for the camera component are
     irrecoverably lost.

   This service requires no arguments.

   This service returns no response.
